README.md, before:

# lazymc-docker-proxy

By using this image, you can combine the straightforward management of Minecraft servers using [itzg/minecraft-server](https://github.com/itzg/docker-minecraft-server) with the efficiency of [lazymc](https://github.com/timvisee/lazymc).

If you have multiple Docker Minecraft servers and you are low on resources or want to save compute power, this project is for you. With `lazymc-docker-proxy`, you can dynamically start a Docker Minecraft server when a player joins and shut it down when the server is idle.

This project is also somewhat inspired by [lazytainer](https://github.com/vmorganp/Lazytainer).

![example](images/example.png)

# Usage

Here is a minimal Docker Compose example using [itzg/minecraft-server](https://github.com/itzg/docker-minecraft-server) as the server:

```yaml
services:
  lazymc:
    container_name: lazymc
    image: ghcr.io/joesturge/lazymc-docker-proxy:latest
    environment:
      # Point to the service name of the Minecraft server
      SERVER_ADDRESS: mc:25565
      # Required to find the container to manage it
      LAZYMC_GROUP: mc
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      # you should mount the minecraft server dir under /server, using read only.
      - data:/server:ro
      # you need to supply the docker socket, so that the container can run docker command
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    ports:
      # lazymc-docker-proxy acts as a proxy, so there is
      # no need to expose the server port on the Minecraft container
      - "25565:25565"

  # Standard Docker Minecraft server, also works with other server types
  mc:
    image: itzg/minecraft-server:java21
    container_name: minecraft-server
    # We need to add a label here so that lazymc-docker-proxy knows which
    # container to manage
    labels:
      - lazymc.group=mc
    tty: true
    stdin_open: true
    # This container should be managed solely by the lazymc container
    # so set restart to no, or else the container will start again...
    restart: no
    environment:
      EULA: "TRUE"
    volumes:
      - data:/data

volumes:
  data:
```

## Environment Variables

Here is a full list of the environment variables supported by this image (\* is required):

- **\*SERVER_ADDRESS** - The address of the Docker Minecraft server to manage, should use the Docker network address, such as `mc:25565`.
- **\*LAZYMC_GROUP** - The value of the `lazymc.group` label assigned to the Docker Minecraft server. This is used by the image to start or stop the server when lazymc triggers it.
- **SERVER_WAKE_WHITELIST** - To wake the server, the user must be in the server whitelist if enabled on the server.
- **SERVER_BLOCK_BANNED_IPS** - Block banned IPs as listed in banned-ips.json in the server directory.
- **SERVER_DROP_BANNED_IPS** - Drop connections from banned IPs.
- **SERVER_PROBE_ON_START** - Probe required server details when starting lazymc, wakes server on start.
- **SERVER_FORGE** - Set to true if this server runs Forge.
- **SERVER_SEND_PROXY_V2** - Add HAProxy v2 header to proxied connections.
- **TIME_SLEEP_AFTER** - Sleep after a number of seconds.
- **TIME_MINIMUM_ONLINE_TIME** - Minimum time in seconds to stay online when the server is started.
- **MOTD_SLEEPING** - MOTD, shown in the server browser when sleeping.
- **MOTD_STARTING** - MOTD, shown in the server browser when starting.
- **MOTD_STOPPING** - MOTD, shown in the server browser when stopping.
- **RCON_ENABLED** - Enable sleeping server through RCON.
- **RCON_PORT** - Server RCON port. Must differ from public and server port.
- **RCON_PASSWORD** - Server RCON password.
- **RUST_LOG** - Set this to `trace` or `debug` to troubleshoot issues.

> Note: `wake_on_crash` and `wake_on_start` are not configurable due to how lazymc starts the server. When running in Docker Compose, all containers are started by default, so `wake_on_start` must also be true when using this image. `wake_on_crash` is also true as it is recommended to launch the Minecraft server with `restart: no`.

If you want more details or have issues, you can also refer to the lazymc [documentation](https://github.com/timvisee/lazymc/tree/master).

Also, refer to the lazymc [config example](https://github.com/timvisee/lazymc/blob/master/res/lazymc.toml). You may notice that the environment variables are named in the same way. This is intentional...

# Development

Thanks for wanting to contribute! Please read the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first off.

## Compile locally

To develop changes fork this repo and ensure you have the following installed:

- [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) (^1.75)
- [docker + docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [bats testing](https://bats-core.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html)

Then run the following

```bash
cargo build --release
```

to build the executable under `target/release` directory.

## Docker

To build the dockerfile locally you can run (from the project root)

```bash
docker build .
```

It is good to also check this before committing to make sure you did not break the build

## Testing

There is a bats integration test for this application. Which performs the following:

1. Builds the docker compose file located at `test/bats/docker-compose.yaml`
2. Starts the docker compose environment for this app and a minecraft container
3. Waits for the minecraft server to start
4. Waits for lazymc to stop the minecraft container

This check is performed in using github actions on every commit

## Changelog

This project uses [keepachangelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.1.0/) to maintain it's changelog.
If you are proposing a change please update the [changelog](CHANGELOG.md) by adding your changes under the `[Unreleased]` header

# Thanks

Thanks for taking the time to check this project out, I hope it helps you manage your minecraft servers for years to come!

Commit message:

feat: added support for minecraft clients pre 1.20.3

README.md, after:

# lazymc-docker-proxy

By using this image, you can combine the straightforward management of Minecraft servers using [itzg/minecraft-server](https://github.com/itzg/docker-minecraft-server) with the efficiency of [lazymc](https://github.com/timvisee/lazymc).

If you have multiple Docker Minecraft servers and you are low on resources or want to save compute power, this project is for you. With `lazymc-docker-proxy`, you can dynamically start a Docker Minecraft server when a player joins and shut it down when the server is idle.

This project is also somewhat inspired by [lazytainer](https://github.com/vmorganp/Lazytainer).

![example](images/example.png)

# Usage

Here is a minimal Docker Compose example using [itzg/minecraft-server](https://github.com/itzg/docker-minecraft-server) as the server:

```yaml
services:
  lazymc:
    container_name: lazymc
    image: ghcr.io/joesturge/lazymc-docker-proxy:latest
    environment:
      # Point to the service name of the Minecraft server
      SERVER_ADDRESS: mc:25565
      # Required to find the container to manage it
      LAZYMC_GROUP: mc
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      # you should mount the minecraft server dir under /server, using read only.
      - data:/server:ro
      # you need to supply the docker socket, so that the container can run docker command
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    ports:
      # lazymc-docker-proxy acts as a proxy, so there is
      # no need to expose the server port on the Minecraft container
      - "25565:25565"

  # Standard Docker Minecraft server, also works with other server types
  mc:
    image: itzg/minecraft-server:java21
    container_name: minecraft-server
    # We need to add a label here so that lazymc-docker-proxy knows which
    # container to manage
    labels:
      - lazymc.group=mc
    tty: true
    stdin_open: true
    # This container should be managed solely by the lazymc container
    # so set restart to no, or else the container will start again...
    restart: no
    environment:
      EULA: "TRUE"
    volumes:
      - data:/data

volumes:
  data:
```

## Environment Variables

Here is a full list of the environment variables supported by this image (\* is required):

- **\*SERVER_ADDRESS** - The address of the Docker Minecraft server to manage, should use the Docker network address, such as `mc:25565`.
- **\*LAZYMC_GROUP** - The value of the `lazymc.group` label assigned to the Docker Minecraft server. This is used by the image to start or stop the server when lazymc triggers it.
- **PUBLIC_VERSION** - The minecraft client version to use. See this page for information: https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Protocol_version
- **PUBLIC_PROTOCOL** - The minecraft protocol version to use. See this page for information on this: https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Protocol_version
- **SERVER_WAKE_WHITELIST** - To wake the server, the user must be in the server whitelist if enabled on the server.
- **SERVER_BLOCK_BANNED_IPS** - Block banned IPs as listed in banned-ips.json in the server directory.
- **SERVER_DROP_BANNED_IPS** - Drop connections from banned IPs.
- **SERVER_PROBE_ON_START** - Probe required server details when starting lazymc, wakes server on start.
- **SERVER_FORGE** - Set to true if this server runs Forge.
- **SERVER_SEND_PROXY_V2** - Add HAProxy v2 header to proxied connections.
- **TIME_SLEEP_AFTER** - Sleep after a number of seconds.
- **TIME_MINIMUM_ONLINE_TIME** - Minimum time in seconds to stay online when the server is started.
- **MOTD_SLEEPING** - MOTD, shown in the server browser when sleeping.
- **MOTD_STARTING** - MOTD, shown in the server browser when starting.
- **MOTD_STOPPING** - MOTD, shown in the server browser when stopping.
- **RUST_LOG** - Set this to `trace` or `debug` to troubleshoot issues.

> Note: `wake_on_crash` and `wake_on_start` are not configurable due to how lazymc starts the server. When running in Docker Compose, all containers are started by default, so `wake_on_start` must also be true when using this image. `wake_on_crash` is also true as it is recommended to launch the Minecraft server with `restart: no`.

> Note: `rcon` configurations are not supported as this app relies on the SIGTERM signal to stop the server.

If you want more details or have issues, you can also refer to the lazymc [documentation](https://github.com/timvisee/lazymc/tree/master).

Also, refer to the lazymc [config example](https://github.com/timvisee/lazymc/blob/master/res/lazymc.toml). You may notice that the environment variables are named in the same way. This is intentional...

# Development

Thanks for wanting to contribute! Please read the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first off.

## Compile locally

To develop changes fork this repo and ensure you have the following installed:

- [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) (^1.75)
- [docker + docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [bats testing](https://bats-core.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html)

Then run the following

```bash
cargo build --release
```

to build the executable under `target/release` directory.

## Docker

To build the dockerfile locally you can run (from the project root)

```bash
docker build .
```

It is good to also check this before committing to make sure you did not break the build

## Testing

There is a bats integration test for this application. Which performs the following:

1. Builds the docker compose file located at `test/bats/docker-compose.yaml`
2. Starts the docker compose environment for this app and a minecraft container
3. Waits for the minecraft server to start
4. Waits for lazymc to stop the minecraft container

This check is performed in using github actions on every commit

## Changelog

This project uses [keepachangelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.1.0/) to maintain it's changelog.
If you are proposing a change please update the [changelog](CHANGELOG.md) by adding your changes under the `[Unreleased]` header

# Thanks

Thanks for taking the time to check this project out, I hope it helps you manage your minecraft servers for years to come!
